## Typing
All method arguments MUST have a type and all methods MUST have an explicit return type. 

### Examples

#### Valid
```ts
add(a: number, b: number): number {
  return a + b
}
```

#### Invalid

```ts
add(a: number, b: number) { // missing return type
  return a + b
}
```

```ts
add(a, b: number): number { // missing argument type
  return a + b
}
```

## ABI Methods
All methods defined in your contract will be routed as ABI methods, unless they have the `private` keyword. This means they will be exposed in the ABI and Application Spec generated by TEALScript.

## Private Subroutines
A method defined with the `private` keyword will only be accessible within the contract itself via a subroutine. This means other contracts or end-users cannot call this method directly and it will not be exposed in the ABI or Application Spec.

### Example
In this example, there is a single public ABI method `doMath` which will then call the `add` or `subtract` subroutines depending on the method given. `doMath` is the only method that is externally callable.

```ts
private add (a: number, b: number): number {
  return a + b
}

private subtract (a: number, b: number): number {
  return a - b
}

doMath(a: number, b: number, operation: string): number {
  if (operation === '+') {
    this.add(a, b)
  } else if (operation === '-') {
    this.subtract(a, b) 
  } else {
    err()
  }
}
```

## Decorators
TEALScript provides some decorators to allow for the handling of specific actions (creation and various on-completes) via {@link handle}. If the method has no arguments and void return, the method will be a bare method for the given action(s). Otherwise, the decorated method will be the ONLY method that can handle the given action.


### Examples
#### Bare Create
```ts
@createApplication
create(): void {
  log("This app has been created!")
}
```

#### Non-Bare Create
```ts
@createApplication
create(name: string): void {
  log("This app has been created by " + name + "!")
}
```
#### Delete and Update
`modifyApp` will allow both delete AND update on-completes.

```ts
@updateApplication
@deleteApplication
modifyApp(): void {
  assert(globals.creatorAddress === this.txn.sender)
  log("App is being modified!")
}
```